.\" __COPYRIGHT__
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
.\" NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
.\" OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" __FILE__ __REVISION__ __DATE__ __DEVELOPER__
.\"
.\" ES - Example Start - indents and turns off line fill
.de ES
.RS
.nf
..
.\" EE - Example End - ends indent and turns line fill back on
.de EE
.RE
.fi
..
.TH SCONSIGN 1 "__MONTH_YEAR__"
.SH NAME
sconsign \- print SCons .sconsign file information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sconsign
[
.IR options ...
]
.IR file
[ ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION

The 
.B sconsign
command
displays the contents of one or more
.B .sconsign
files specified by the user.

By default,
.B sconsign
dumps the entire contents of the
specified file(s).
Each entry is printed in the following format:

    file: signature timestamp length
            implicit_dependency_1: signature timestamp length
            implicit_dependency_2: signature timestamp length
            action_signature [action string]

.B None
is printed
in place of any missing timestamp, bsig, or csig
values for
any entry
or any of its dependencies.
If the entry has no implicit dependencies,
or no build action,
the lines are simply omitted.

By default,
.B sconsign
assumes that any
.I file
arguments that end with a
.B .dbm
suffix contains
signature entries for
more than one directory
(that is,
was specified by the
.B SConsignFile ()
function).
Any
.I file
argument that does not end in
.B .dbm
is assumed to be a traditional
.B .sconsign
file containing the signature entries
for a single directory.
An explicit format
may be specified using the
.B -f
or
.B --file=
options.

.SH OPTIONS

Various options control what information is printed
and the format:

.TP
-a, --act, --action
Prints the build action information
for all entries or the specified entries.

.TP
-c, --csig
Prints the content signature (csig) information
for all entries or the specified entries.

.TP
-d DIRECTORY, --dir=DIRECTORY
When the signatures are being
read from a
.B .dbm
file, or the
.B -f dbm
or
.B --format=dbm
options are used,
prints information about
only the signatures
for entries in the specified
.IR DIRECTORY .

.TP
-e ENTRY, --entry=ENTRY
Prints information about only the specified
.IR ENTRY .
Multiple -e options may be used,
in which case information about each
.I ENTRY
is printed in the order in which the
options are specified on the command line.

.TP
-f FORMAT, --format=FORMAT
The file(s) to be printed
are in the specified
.IR FORMAT .
Legal values are
.B dbm
(the DBM format used
when the
.BR SConsignFile ()
function is used)
or
.B sconsign
(the default format
used for an individual
.B .sconsign
file in each directory).

.TP
-h, --help
Prints a help message and exits.

.TP
-i, --implicit
Prints the list of cached implicit dependencies
for all entries or the the specified entries.

.TP
--raw
Prints a pretty-printed representation
of the raw Python dictionary that holds
build information about individual entry
(both the entry itself or its implicit dependencies).
An entry's build action is still printed in its usual format.

.TP
-r, --readable
Prints timestamps in a human-readable string,
enclosed in single quotes.

.TP
-t, --timestamp
Prints the timestamp information
for all entries or the specified entries.

.TP
-v, --verbose
Prints labels identifying each field being printed.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP SCONS_LIB_DIR
Specifies the directory that contains the SCons Python module directory
(e.g. /home/aroach/scons-src-0.01/src/engine).
on the command line.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scons ,
.B scons
User Manual,
.B scons
Design Document,
.B scons
source code.

.SH AUTHORS
Steven Knight <knight at baldmt dot com>
